---
title: "Broken Telephone: A Social Convention"
creators: Lada Tatarkina
year: 2024
course: studio 1
yearLevel: 'First'
exhibition: 2024-studio-i
priority: 3
image: ./tatarkina-0.jpg
tags:
  - ai
  - news
---


The Broken Telephone- a game where your initial statement is passed down and over time goes through modification, and at the end compared to the original. Recycling the logic and applying to explore a potential social convention for posting on social media. The project aims to addess an alternative way of sharing information.

This project aims to address the possibility of a modality of the convention that before posting everything goes through manipulation and changes through AI

Fake news and misinformation is an ever-growing problem. Something that humans will ultimately contribute to. A problem with no solution, considering the evolution of technology and easily accessible tools like AI. The freedom we have today is taken for granted. Information and Ai are intangible, thus the theat may not be perceived at a distance.

A line of experts predict that by the end of the decade 90% of content will be generated by AI. In that percentage news and important information play a part. This project explores this extreme scenario, where people's democracy is sabotaged. This opens a lens of how people will interact and perceive the information. "That is not what I meant! it was taken out of context!" statement from people done during user testing, give a small glimpse of what is to come.

Users go through a familiar process of answering a prompt and posting on a social media feed. The answer is misinterpreted with the aid of Chat GPT OpenAi. A comparable real-life scenario- being a primary witness of an event, and sharing something about it. The posted statement may be accurate, but when in the wrong hands, can be used for malicious manipulation. The possibility of malice is applied in real time. There is no delay. It explores the modality in how people experience these changes in an in-your-face scenario. Will users learn the patterns of the AI and try to trick it to maintain some sense of democracy? How will users reply to each other and interact with each other? This project opens a room to explore these possibilities.